---
layout:	post
title:	"Currency"
date:	2014-12-1
---
* People make light of the weird pyramid on the back of the one dollar bill (and the floating Eye above it)---but they never mention the blighted little shrubs at its foot, or the miasmas rising from the cracked landscape behind.

* You can fold the twenty dollar bill in such a way that the low barberry hedges behind the White House transform into smoke billowing from the World Trade. And a quarter has 119 ridges on the edge [called *reeds*], which we all know is 9/11 backwards.

* The back of the Susan B. Anthony dollar coin shows a bald eagle clutching a laurel branch, flying above the surface of the moon. But of course there is no air for an eagle to breathe on the moon and no wind to lift his wings.

* It says, *This note is legal tender for all debts, public and private.* Thus the balance in my bank account means I am owed a great debt.

* At the base of FDR's neck on the dime, there are the initials *JS* embossed in tiny letters. At one time, people suspected this stood for *Joseph Stalin*, placed there by a Soviet agent at the mint. They are actually the initials of the designer.

* Samuel Curtis Upham (1819-1885) was a famed counterfeiter of Confederate bills. During the rebellion, he printed millions and sold them for pennies on the dollar. In his lifetime, he was known as Honest Sam Upham.

* One in every ten thousand American bills in circulation is counterfeit. The thing about being covered in cocaine is true. The Confederate dollar was fiat currency 100 years before the US dollar. Your unredeemed Camel Cash expired in 2007 and is worthless.

* Apparently all of the gold ever mined would fill a cube 66 feet by 66 feet by 66 feet.
