:title History of Reading
:date: 2017-02-24
:status: draft
:slug: history-of-reading

Preface
-------

In another book, I found a reference to an essay by Robert Darnton
called "First Steps Toward a History of Reading." It appears in his
collection *The Kiss of Lamourette*, published by W. W. Norton & Company
in 1991. I was unable to find the book online or locally. The nearest
copy was at the Mid-Manhattan branch of the New York Public Library. I
was able to read it on May 4, 2014. These are the notes I took, in an
attempt to summarize the points made by Darnton. (presented without
commentary) [reference was in *Moonwalking with Einsteain*, a book on
the art of memory]

Toward a History of Reading
---------------------------

Ovid describes writing and reading love letters in *The Art of
Love*---reading them carefully to verify true love, hiding the messages
from spouses. These seem relevant and true today. Despite this, books
and reading have changed.

Carlo Ginzberg wrote about the reading habits of [a] 16th century
miller, in the Inquisiton record. The miller, Menocchio, read
aggressively and *interprtted* those books into a personal, and
non-Christian, view of the world.

Rousseau, in a forward, taught his readers how to read his 6-volume
novel *La Nouvelle Heloise*. It was the bestseller of the 18th century,
and is the "most important single source of romantic sensibility". "That
sensibility is now extinct." "No modern reader can weep his way through
the six volumes..." Rousseau "revolutionized reading itself." Reading
and living were interwoven, ideas read [were] incorporated and lived.

The *Sorrows of Young Werther* [by Goethe] triggered suicides in
Germany.

Published letters to the editor, diaries, suicide notes, author
correspondence with readers, etc. could be a source of information on
readers (historical). The documents show results of reasong, but no the
cognition itself.

Macro-analysis of French d'ep^ot l^egal, registers of book privileges,
the annual Bibliographie de la France; German catalogues of book fairs;
English papers of printing houses--to show phenomena like the decline of
Latin, rise of the novel, fascination with the "immediate world of
nature" and remote countries. Records from as early as the Reneissance.

The analysis is rough. Vague categories like "arts and sciences" and
"belles-lettres" are used. There is little data during [the] Thirty
Year[s?] War at the Leipzig book fair, [nor] World War I in France. The
apparatus is insufficient to study interesting topics like: Succession
Controverty, Jansenism, Enlightenment, Gothic Revival.

Yet there are interesting discoveries: late 18th century cultural
revival in Germany correlated with reading fad called *Lesewut* or
*Lesesucht*. In Germany, the fall in book sales with Thiry Year War
don't return until 1764. And further upward with *Sturm und Drang*,
1770-1800.

France book production grew under Peace of Westphalia (1648), but
stagnated while Germany soared.

Figures indicate a German golden age after a century of French
domination of [the] literary world.

In 18th century France, novels, travel books, and natural history was
more popular than classic among nobles. Religious literature fell in the
18th century too.

In germany, England, *and* the United States during the late 19th
century, 70-80% of books borrowed were light fiction (mostly novels),
10% history, biography, travel, less than 1% religion.

Overall, the novel replaced religious literature with a turning point in
the second half of the 18th century.

Compare *Wertherfieber* in Germany, *La Nouvelle Heloise* in France,
*Pamela* in England.

Macro results seem to support Max Weber's "demystification of the
world".

Micro analysis of library catalogs, public and private, may muddy it. In
500 18th century French catalogs, only one copy of Rousseau's *Social
Contract* was found, the supposed bible of the French Revolution.

Records show huge amounts of forgotten books, especially books of little
commercial value.

Lists of subscribers to publishing houses are another source of
information on readership. As expected, richer people owned more books.

Lending records of ducal library of Wolfenbuttel, from 1666-1928, show a
doubling of borrows in 1760s and a shift in reading toward light fiction
(e.g. imitations of Robinson Crusoe).

Rolf Engelsing in "Die Perioden der Lesergeschichte in der Neuzeit: Das
statistische und die soziokulturelle Bedeutung der Lekture" in *Archiv
fur Geschichte des Buchweseas 10* (1869) and *Der Burger uls Leser: Le
sergeschichle in Deutscheland 1500-1800* (1974), argues for a
*Leserevolution* (reading revolution) toward the end of the 18th
century. From Middle Ages until 1750, men read intesively--only a few
books: Bible, an almanac, a couple devolution works--and re-read them,
usually aloud in groups. By 1800, men read extensively--varied material,
periodicals and newspapers, read only once.

Engelsing doesn't show strong evidence, and it is a bit reductive in its
unilinear formula *intesive -> extensive*, but the hypothesis roughly
seems to work. This shift coincides with reading reaching a wide public.

Exception to shift is public readong of Richardson, Rousseau, and
Goethe, where people became *more* intensive, not less.

Darnton is skeptical, but David Hall, in "The Uses of Literacy in New
England 1600-1850" in *Printing and Society in Early America*, seems to
show a parallel shift in the United States. Before 1800, New Englanders
read the Bible, almanacs, the New England Primer, Philip Doddridge's
*Rise and Progress of Religion*, Richard Baxter's *Call to the
Unconverted* over and over, aloud in groups. After 1800, novels,
newspapers, children's literature, etc., and discarding after use.

"May not have been a revolution", but marked end of Old Regime--reign of
Thomas a Kempis, Johann Arndt, John Bunyan.

Reading clubs--\ *cabinets litteraires*, *Le Segesellschaften*--became
popular in the late 18th century. Coffeehouses also appeared during this
time. All fed by periodicals, newspapers, irregular runs of books,
ournals, and discussion, often political.

Reading was a spiritual exercise in the 18th and 19th centuries. And it
was a physical activity. Also in the 16th and 17th centuries.

In 17th century England, writing was taught separately form reading, and
taught later on. In 1770 Sweden, 80-95% could read but only 20% could
write. Very few went to school, and reading was taught at home, in order
to read the Bible. (This was a response to the church law of 1686
requiring this.)

In the Protestant north, children learned to read. In Catholic South, to
recall memorized Latin with text as cue. (In the early Modern period)

Codex replaced scrolls (volumen) in the 4th century. This was the first
book. Silent reading appeared in the 7th century in monestaries and 13th
century in universities, instead of recitation of *scripta continua*.

Form of books changed as readership changed: chapbooks, block prints,
etc.
