:title:  In the twilight of GMT+1
:date:   2015-02-02
:slug: in-the-twilight
:category: Essays

The telegraph was an early internet, with its own lolcats and leetspeak.
To people in the future, we probly seem like steampunks: one foot in the
last century, carrying our brains around in our pockets like
Tamagotchis.

To open a file on your computer, you touch an arrowhead to a tiny
picture of a manila folder. When you want to save, an artist's rendering
of a 3.5‚Äù floppy disk. Clicking on a trashcan will de-index a block of
memory. If the world was Tetris, we'd all have roofs with holes in them
(or no roofs at all).

Buddhist prayers wheels have a mantra written around so that, when spun,
it is like the mantra is being read. The Dalai Lama has said that having
the mantra on your computer works the same as a traditional wheel. As
the digital image spins on your hard drive, it sends the peaceful prayer
of compassion in all directions.

The Malaysian space agency recommends that Muslim astronauts, if they
cannot determine the direction of Mecca, pray in the direction of the
Earth. Failing that, any direction is acceptable. Additionally they
advise you to "observe peace with other beings".

In Tibet and Nepal, they still practice sky burials, where bodies are
stripped and laid out for the vultures to eat. But the bodies that have
been given medicine or cleaned in hospitals make the vultures sick, so
they have to be buried in the ground.

Apparently the most coveted donors for knee replacements are Muslim men.
Their patella are kept flexible by the years of praying on their knees.

There have never been middle-aged rappers before. And you can't even
make a rapper admit to rapping anymore. They've become demure.

I remember when pay phones cost 35 cents. I remember pay phones. I asked
around and confirmed that they don't even play beer pong with beer in
the cups anymore. They just keep score on paper. We will be among the
last people on Earth to remember before the Internet, if yet we still
do.
