:title: Selected Internet Posts
:date: 2017-03-19
:slug: internet-posts
:status: draft

Frugal Guy in Winston-Salem, NC
===============================

\`https://www.reddit.com/r/leanfire/comments/5sqzgs/is\_anyone\_else\_here\_starting\_from\_the\_bottom/ddhdphq/

So some people might not find my way "pure leanFIRE" or "cheating" or
some shit, but realistically it's an awesome life.

I sell my plasma, which takes about 5 hours a week, and make $380/month.
I don't go out to eat, I don't have a car, I don't have insurance, I
don't have a phone plan, and all my bills are $300/month total.
Absolutely no desire to travel or get married. Yeah, technically I have
to go to a building and stare at my phone for 5 hours every week, but I
really hesitate to call that "work". Been doing this for about 3 years
now and there's many other older people at the plasma center who do the
same thing. The biggest catch? I have to share a bathroom with my
roommate gasp. For the record, I live in Winston-Salem, NC. You probably
have a plasma selling place near you if you're in at least a moderately
sized city.

The funny thing is I have zero debt plus $10K in the bank from previous
good investments so I'm doing leagues better than all my friends who
have graduated from grad school. I'm definitely doing better than the
63% of Americans who can't handle a $500 bill.

One more thing OP: my parents are intelligent and wealthy but it's moot
because and my parents disowned me long ago. Also I have two STEM
degrees (no debt thanks to a merit-based scholarship) but I've never
used them. College was a massive waste of time for me.

http://imgur.com/a/s78kr

$490/month rent for two people = $245/month for me. This includes water,
garbage, & heating. We split the ~$60/month energy bill (neither of us
use heating or AC cause we don't need to), and the $40/month internet
bill. That's right, $300/month is a slightly *higher* estimate than
average ;) It is kind of annoying only having a max download speed of
400 KB/s though...

Food+toiletries is covered by the remaining $80/month plus a fuckton of
dumpstered food from Trader Joe's and Aldi. Me and my roommate only shop
at Walmart. Some people claim that dumpstered stuff is "cheating at
leanFIRE" but lions don't concern themselves with the opinions of sheep
:^)

I keep in touch with my friends without a phone plan through wifi apps
and facebook. I guess I also have a burner for emergencies (ie getting
someone to come meet me when I'm not around wifi).

There is no age limit to selling plasma. I talked to a 70 year old woman
who lives off plasma, social security, and medicaid the other day. I
guess when I get really old I'll just die instead of fighting for
another couple weeks of life in the ICU.

Minimum [health insurance] plan I can get is about $200 a month. I
simply can't afford that and maintain my lifestyle. I don't like
unconscious work. Thank Trump they're getting rid of Obamacare so my
mere existence is no longer illegal.

Pharmacist
==========

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=9769598

I am 29 and I also feel uneasy about my life. I have no real interests.
I make a pretty good salary as a pharmacist and I've been saving and
investing 80% of my income (up to 90% this past year) the past five
years. I plan to do this for another few years.

But then what? I already designed my minimalist life to be filled with
free time (no possessions, no obligations). No mortgage, no loans
whatsoever, and getting a vasectomy next month. Literally all the time I
have not at work is free time.

This may sound like humblebrag, but because my expenses are so low I can
quit working right now. But it's nothing to brag about. Because I'm
scared. I'm addicted to a salary and the reason I keep working (I don't
like my job - it's repetitive and tedious and stressful) is because I
don't want to make less money than I'm currently making.

I don't want kids, I don't want to travel. I don't want to commit to a
relationship. What will happen in five years when my passive income
comes close to what I make at work? What will I do with myself? I really
don't know. I'm learning how to code but lose motivation every two
weeks.

It'll be interesting to see what people actually do when there's no work
left to do. I don't picture a good outcome, mainly from my perspective
of having too much freedom. Yes, there is such a thing.

Essay on Laying Down and Rotting
================================

https://www.reddit.com/r/Incels/comments/5vkh1s/a\_comprehensive\_guide\_to\_ldaring/

There is a lot to say about LDARing as a way of life, which
automatically makes it difficult for any practicing LDARer to write such
handbook. I have however decided to do it, as for one, I really don’t
have anything better to do, and it doesn’t come in the way of my
drinking.

I will cover the basics here, and then elaborate more in separate posts
or in comments if necessary.

What is LDARing?

Laying Down and Rotting is a state of mind and a way of life. The short
definition is pretty clear – existing in a limbo, without goals,
aspirations or initiative, which unfortunately often prevents you from
killing yourself as well. LDARing is a training for dying. Meaningless
countdown until the inevitable.

But while passive, it is not static. As the word “rot” suggests, you are
going through a process. In it you kill off parts of yourself bit by bit
since you lack the energy and motivation to take the big leap. Like a
person who wants to swim but instead of jumping into the cold sea they
are standing there trying to slowly get accustomed to the chilling
water.

Is the goal of LDARing death?

Wrong premise. LDARing isn’t done with an objective unless you want to
be extremely nitpicky and argumentative like most reddior normies.
LDARers are not “passionate” about dying, or enthusiastically preparing
for death. LDARing is about the rejection of life, and while death can
certainly be comforting, we know we aren’t actually going to exist to
experience any comfort, only dying which is probably not a pleasant
experience. But we know we have no real control over anything, and no
significant options. We are just existing through it and letting it take
it’s toll on us as any realist (or as normies would say, pessimist)
knows it would anyway, just with more pain and disappointment on our
end.

What is LDARing hoping to achieve?

Nothing.

Why choose LDARing as a way to spend your days? Even if everything is
meaningless and death is the only certainty, at least you can have some
fun?

Because nothing available to us is fun. Because we are not sociopaths
enough to find pleasure in a world like this one, and not deluded enough
to be oblivious to it. And everything we want is not possible or
obtainable which causes frustrations, so LDARing is an optimal solution
as it allows one to remain personally honest while minimizing negative
reactions/emotions and reducing the effort spent on living that produces
no benefits in return. It is a rational choice.

Are there any philosophies associated with LDARing?

When you LDAR, you’re not concerned about philosophy or debating with
reddit philosophy majors, but pessimism offers the correct description
of our reality (to beginners, I recommend reading Schopenhauer’s essays
on pessimism), and nihilism reflects the general attitude towards it
pretty accurately. I would say that antinatalism should logically
follow, but phrasing it like that is a little too opinionated and might
mistakenly communicate some kind of idealism to normies.

What are some perks of going LDAR?

There are many. Through simplification of life and allowing different
parts of your existence to die out, anxiety becomes more manageable. You
have a lot of free time. Very little nostalgia as every day is exactly
the same. You don’t have to complain about procrastination on reddit as
there is nothing to procrastinate. Time is not the enemy anymore. You
don’t have to irrationally worry about whether or not something is
healthy for you or obsess over what you should be doing, you are looking
at the bigger picture. Lifestyle is cheap and relatively easy once you
get a hang of it. You’re less annoying to yourself. Also, you stop being
an useful functional tool supporting the world you can get no joy from.

What are some challenges a LDARer faces?

Depending on a personal situation, normies in your life might be
passionate about making you not LDAR or punishing you for LDARing. This
is why until you are able to achieve complete separation, it is
advisable to be inconspicuous while rotting and, in true spirit of LDAR,
let issues and efforts die off slowly through neglect rather than
through an active fight. Almost everything dies if neglected for long
enough.

Except for sex drive, but that’s another story.

How does one go about LDARing in the first place?

Just start the process and then simplify your life through complete
neglect of it’s components.

::

    LDAR isn’t demanding or forceful. Like I said, rotting is passive, but it is also a process. You don’t just go forcefully trying to stop doing anything but staring at a wall. That is normie mentality. The whole point is that you’re not doing or trying anything. “Doing” here stands for something that requires effort on your part, not anything that can be called an activity. If staring at a wall takes up your effort at the moment, but you can zone out in front of a tv, then do the latter. That’s how rotting happens.

    No hobbies. And perspective matters here. A normie looks to put a positive, uplifting and meaningful spin on everything. They are into things, they are enthusiasts, they make things into hobbies. You don’t. You’re just drifting through time. You can drink, you can watch shit, you can post online, but you can stop pretending it’s your “thing”, let alone try to market it as such to others.

    Stop any personal marketing of yourself in any form. This is one of the main motivators for normies to do anything, other motivator being sex which you’re not getting anyway, or at least not in the form you’d want to get it.

    If you had one, lose any social life – friends, family, dates (lol), just stop engaging. You can still go online as anonymous user for a bit, no worries. You feel like you want to shitpost, go shitpost. Like I said, no pressure either way, rotting will happen slowly, needs will decrease, the (let’s face it, already poor) social skills will further decay until you can no longer put a coherent sentence together.

    Job is sometimes inevitable. Of course a NEET lifestyle is the ideal for LDARing but not everyone has inheritance, supportive parents, or communism. If you’re a wagecuck then do it as long as you are going through the motions without any ambition and doing the minimum. At least you’re lifestyle doesn’t require much money. Being homeless might require more effort since it makes you constantly have to find ways to reduce the discomfort.

    Don’t care for yourself in any way but remain inconspicuous if in danger of intervention. Forget doctors and therapists (unless they can help obtain government assistance). Forget educational institutions. But unless you can allow yourself a 100% NEET hikikomori lifestyle, keep on showering and looking normal.

    Don’t rush the process. The longer you functionally rot the more likely you will eventually get to the NEET hikikomori stage and at that point the neglect will kill off any source of intervention and reduce your chances of getting brainwashed back into functionality by normie cult. Quality over speed.

    Let hope die. Goals, aspirations, ambitions, passions, that’s not so hard to kill. But you might fall into the trap of seeing LDARing as some kind of personal protest until your conditions are met. It’s silly. You are not dealing with a just world no matter how ingrained it is in you. As long as it’s an act of protest on any level, you remain hopeful you’ll provoke some kind of cosmic response and some Misaki will come to prove you wrong. Stop. You need to by now to be able to read patterns and see into the future. Even if something promising pops up, you need to live it out in your mind from its inception to the inevitable and disappointing death, and then let it go. You’re not doing this with hope for intervention, you’re doing this because there’s nothing else acceptable for you to do.

    Suicide is a possible end, but since you are probably too passive, you can just allow yourself low effort choices that will speed up death. Taking up smoking, drinking daily, heroin if you can afford it, all these are encouraged. Plus they create addictions and thereby become easy activities as you don’t have to force yourself to engage in them, just follow the line of least resistance.

    Always remember your moto, whatever it is you’re facing – “Just Don’t Do It!”
