:title:  John Henry
:date:   2015-06-21
:category: Essays
:slug: john-henry

**Emails from your boss, written in the form of a question, with a
period at the end**

Smart people are house slaves to the rich. Even among the aliens, the
Nordic whites rule over the little greens and grays. To my landlord, I
am an encumbrance on the property. To my employer, a capital outlay. I
find it hard to believe that, in three million years of fossil record,
there is not a single lizard man.

Some open questions: Why does the cable company need my Social Security
number? Why does my boss need to know my credit score? How come I can't
give *him* a piss test? Where do cows get their calcium, if they only
eat grass? And their protein, for that matter?

Spy satellites are so high up, they always look straight down. If you
face forward, they can only see the top of your head.

I found a spot behind the security desk at the mall where I can watch
the guards idly browse the internet.

**John Henry**

To survive in white collar labor, you must cultivate a certain
lassitude, and wear it as a suit of armor. If the work load is heavy,
you have to drag your feet, since even if you finish early you won't get
sent home. If the work load is light, you have to pretend to be working
hard or you will get assigned more work. In any case, you must also
appear to be having a good time.

When the railroads were built, work songs were sung to set the pace of
labor. It kept everyone working at a level of exertion that could be
kept up all day in the hot sun without risking death. It also kept every
working at the same rate, so no one could foolishly work harder to win
the graces of the foreman---which would force everyone else to work
harder, and thereby endanger both their welfare and their lives.

In the office, there's no sound other than the dull hum of the air
conditioner and the cricketsong of computers. And your coworkers are all
blood doping---cranking on the commute, then drinking themselves to
sleep at night. How can you keep up without joining in?

John Henry was able to beat the steel-driving machine thru sheer effort.
But afterward, his heart gave out and he soon died. The "Ballad of John
Henry" says “That old hammer killed John Henry / but that old hammer
won't kill me”. I'm saying, that old hammer won't kill me.

**Not an apartment, but a dark hole I lived in for 3 years**

To vacate an apartment without incident feels like getting away with a
crime. You drag your mattress down the stairwell and leave it in a
dumpster like a warm body. Having recouped the full deposit, you skip
town before the landlord gets wise.

To live is to be in constant fear of legal retribution: speeding,
jaywalking, illegal downloading, cheating on your taxes, and so on. The
state of Connecticut defines “loitering” as: standing around, moving
slowly about, spending time idly, sauntering, dallying, lingering, or
lagging behind. In Florida, twenty grams is a felony.

Say you found a pair of crystal antlers. How could you explain having a
pair of crystal antlers to the police? Better to play it safe and
quickly dispose of them.

Whenever you hear sirens, you think it's for you. When you see a cop,
you think "so this is how it ends". It's only a matter of time before
the black helicopters swoop down to snatch you up. As for me, I know my
last days will be described as *brazen*.
