:title:  Junkie, don't talk to me
:date:   2015-05-09
:category: Essays
:slug: junkie

Cold water after black coffee is like tempering steel
=====================================================


I've come to a calm in the midst of my mid-morning coffee—my first and
only coffee of the day. The fog in my head burns off. The wool-legged
spiders who cobweb my attic disperse.

Caffeine doesn't bring euphoria—more like an elasticity to your limbs
and a humming in your head, from the amplified sound of your blood. And
a feeling like being wrapped in warm, clean towels.

But it's only good for the first few sips. Just as you start to enjoy
the high, you've already peaked. By the time you finish, you're past the
plateau and down in the valley after.

Nowadays I'm only happy for 15 minutes at a time, followed by a
headache. And with it comes boredom. Not a boredom like watching paint
dry, but watching paint that had recently dried. The grass growing in
the lawn has stalled out, and I'm languishing in a terminal middle-class
lifestyle.

Taking dexedrine at 2am in NYC to hold you thru till 5am when Grand Central re-opens and you can get a train back to Connecticut
================================================================================================================================

I'd say, if caffeine was a taxi conducting your body thru the human
traffic, that dexedrine is a black sedan speeding thru a tunnel at
night.

Junkie
======

I can tell when my mom has been drinking coffee. She is jubilant. She is
effervescent. She *bubbles*. I tell her, "Don't talk to me, junkie."

She started drinking coffee because she was narcoleptic and would fall
asleep while driving. I only started drinking coffee after I started
taking caffeine pills. Which I only took with alcohol, to make drinking
less miserable.

I read an insightful observation somewhere, maybe in a Gawker comment,
that Lindsay Lohan wasn't a cokehead, just an alcoholic who took cocaine
to be able to drink more.

Coffee as ideology
==================

1. You're in the city and there's coffee to buy. Either with brunch or
   after when you walk around the shops. Later there's beer. Someone's
   in town for a few days or it's a going away party. You drink and talk
   and make plans to meet at the new brunch place in the morning. They
   have the best espresso.

2. The pass code for the bathroom at the Union Square Starbucks on July
   4, 2014 was 8282. And I gave it away to the first person I saw: a
   Russian tourist standing in line. In turn, she gave it to the people
   behind her. In this way, she was my first apostle.

3. I prefer the discretion of pill poppers and day drunks to the
   perverts who go to cafes after dark.

Hairy Man
=========

In the March 2014 issue of *The Red Bulletin*, an interview with Nicolas
Cage (“Being Nicolas Cage”) opens with “Do you think about death?” (He
does.)

At the grocery store by the energy drinks, there is a sign that says
"This area is monitored by Closed Circuit Television." In the aisle by
the safety razors, the same sign, plus a sliding plastic shield across
the shelf—presumably to slow you down when scooping them into your
trash bag.

The implication is that there exists a cohort of congenitally hairy men
(or one Hairy Man) who both fiends for caffeine and is willing to do
anything to alleviate his condition.
