:title:  If you buy the car, you get to kick the tires
:date:   2014-10-13
:slug: kick-the-tires
:category: Essays

**Long Vacation**

I quit my insurance job for another insurance job in Hartford, Conn. I
packed everything I own into the Buick that my grampa left me---my
beautiful big body Buick---and drove 100 miles deeper into New England.

My stock farewell for exes and departing friends has been, *see you
later*. I like to imagine we will meet again, if the world requires it,
if only at the resurrection of the dead. My last day at work didn't feel
like anything more than the last day before a long vacation, from which
I would inevitably return.

**Quebec via Blandford**

Between jobs, I went on a road trip to Quebec. I figured Quebec was the
closest thing to a foreign country that I could get to for $100. Passing
thru Blandford, Mass., I saw a foreboding sign warning of “Low Flying
Planes”.

If you found yourself naked on the side of a highway in, say, the
Adirondacks, what one item would you want with you? Your cell phone?
Your wallet? A gun? Shoes?

**Hostel**

In French Canada, Starbucks is called Café Starbucks. The detour sign
says *Détour*. The deer sign is the same.

The hostel feels like a college dorm. It smells like a college dorm. I
slept in a room with five damp Frenchmen. The steam from the attached
shower completed our locker room. We mostly laid in the dark and looked
at our respective smartphones.

Having quit drinking, there is an empty space in my life, and it's
shaped like a pub crawl.

**Montreal**

I spent the morning at the university library. I walked in the front
door and found a seat in the study area. I was questioned by a security
guard, but I just pretended to have forgotten my student ID and he
relented. There was only one other person there, on a whole floor of
long tables and dim cubicles---and he had probly just come in off the
street too.

At a fancy vegan restaurant, I was given a ginger-root beet-juice drink
by mistake. I took a sip, knowing it was a mistake, but suppressing this
knowledge. I hoped it was somehow complementary or part of the tofu
sandwich I had ordered, tho it was nowhere on the menu. The waitstaff
discovered their error and suggested I pay for the drink, which I had by
then drank. I complied, thinking it couldn't cost that much, and ended
up spending 8,95 CAD on some thin red wet.

**Montreal 2**

Downtown Montreal feels like a clean, depopulated Manhattan.

I stepped into a biblioteque anarchiste just to browse.

This city, like all cities, has been weaponized against transients.

**Quebec City**

I drove thru a brown landscape that reminded me more of Iowa than
France. I was doing 120 in the 100km/h.

The old part of Quebec looks like Europe for someone who has never been
to Europe, which I haven't. The facade of the buildings are kept as they
were, but inside there are T-shirt shops. It's like Colonial
Williamsburg without the pre-diabetic wheelwright going on about the
Stamp Act.

I walked in from the rain to a cathedral---the oldest in America north
of Mexico---and I took off my hat in a gesture of reverence. But it felt
ridiculous. Why this reverence? For this so-called House-o-God, built by
forced labor, on stolen land, with stone tore up out the ground, and
gold leaf by way of Senegal, etc., etc.

In making monuments of the oldest settlements, we venerate scar tissue,
while the new wounds still bleed.

**Border Crossing**

At the border, I propped my door open to talk, since my window won't go
down. The guy took the opportunity to shake it back and forth, I suppose
to detect hidden contraband. Border guards are always suspicious when
you are an American returning to America. (Only now do I wonder about my
Fourth Amendment.)

They ask you basic questions like “Where do you live?” but in a pointed
way, like they expect anyone other than an upright citizen to be unable
to respond. And however commonplace the answer, they take it with
exaggerated incredulity. I told him I was on vacation, and he goes
“\ *Alone?*\ ” with a little grin. I guess they want to rattle you, to
see what falls out.

He looked at me hard and then at the row of cars behind and conceded to
his gut's calculus. He was disappointed to let me go.
