:title: Finding Lit Mags
:date: 2018-04-08
:modified: 2019-11-05
:category: Notes
:slugs: lit-mags

How does a writer find publications to submit their work to? The answer doesn't
seem to be clear cut. I am not well informed, but here are some my notes on how
to go about the search. (This information is heavily biased to the American
literary market, but maybe you can find analogues to these sources in your own
country.)

Directories and Trade Magazines
-------------------------------

In the old days, from what I gather, they used to refer to directories like
*Writer's Market* (WM) [#wm]_ and *Literary Market Place* (LMP). These books
contain lists of magazines, publishers, and literary agents, as well as
information as to the kind of work they're interested in. In *On Writing*,
Stephen King calls *Writer's Market* "the most valuable of tools for the writer
new to the marketplace." [#ow]_ I think this sort of information could also be
found in trade magazines like *Writer's Digest*, *Poets & Writers*, and
*Publishers Weekly*.

Even though it seems old-fashioned, these directories are still published every
year to keep them up to date. Many libraries have copies of WM and LMP in their
reference section. You may be able to find copies of writing/publishing trade
magazines at the library as well.

.. [#ow] King, Stephen. *On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft*. Scribner, 2000, ch. 4.

.. [#wm] *Writer's Market* is published by Writer's Digest Books. They have an
    array of directories tailored to certain forms/media, e.g., *Poet's Market* and
    *Novel and Short Story Writer's Market*. They publish *Guide to Literary Agents*.
    They happen to also published the periodical *Writer's Digest*.

Online Directories
------------------

Besides their periodical, *Poets & Writers* maintains a list of literary
magazines on their `website <https://www.pw.org/literary_magazines>`__ with
thumbnail descriptions and genre tags.

The Council of Literary Magazines and Presses (CMLP) compiles a directory of
independent literary publishers. While it used to be published in print, it is
now available `online <https://www.clmp.org/readers/directory/>`__.

`Who Pays Writers <http://whopayswriters.com>`__ is a crowd-sourced database of
rates paid by magazines for work.

I think the submission manager `Submittable <https://www.submittable.com/>`__
has a "Discover" feature on their website which shows open calls for
submissions.

A few times a year, *Entropy* publishes links to magazines with `calls for
submissions <https://entropymag.org/category/where-to-submit/>`__.

Follow the Breadcrumbs
----------------------

You can also find magazines by following your nose instead of these more
systematic methods.

If there is an author you like, you can try to find the names of presses and
periodicals who have published their work. If it seems like a good fit, you
could submit to those. This sort of bibliographic information could be found in
the back of one of their books or embedded in biographical blurbs in a magazine
or on their website.

Literary magazines usually publish sort biographies of the authors of the works
appearing in the issue. It seems to be standard practice for writers to list
the names of other magazines they've been published in or the publishers of
their books. By reading these, you can find new magazines to check out. Those
magazines will have the bios of more authors and the names of more magazines.
By spidering along (not unlike a `web crawler
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_crawler>`__), you can discover lots of
magazines. If you find one you like, you can try submitting your work to it.

If you know any writers, you could try bugging them and see if they know of any
cool magazines.

Appendix: How to Submit
-----------------------

Here is a super-short guide on how to submit to a book publisher or magazine.

If you found the press or magazine in one of those print directories, there may
be instructions provided there about how to submit.

If you find them online, go to their website. Look around for a link to an
"About" or "Submissions" page. Sometimes these links are hidden down at the
bottom of the page. There you can usually find submission guidelines or
information on who to ask about submitting work.

Whatever the instructions say—how to send your work, who to send it to, file
formats, length restrictions, etc.—follow them as closely as you can. If you
know the name of the editor, address them by name in your cover letter. (I
won't get into cover letters... I don't know how to write those properly.)

After you've sent your work out, wait patiently. Forget about it. If your work
is accepted, congratulations! If you receive a boilerplate rejection notice,
don't send any reply. Don't dwell on the rejection, just move on to your next
submission. If you receive a personalized rejection, congratulations! Send a
thank you note.
