:title: Minimalist Websites
:date: 2019-08-02
:category: Notes
:slug: minimalist-sites

I like hand-made personal websites, especially those with a minimalist
bent, so I've collected some here. This list has some overlap with my
`Links to People <./links.html>`__, since when I've found someone with
a cool minimalist website, I've often kept a link to it.

Show Me the Sites
-----------------

Shared hosting sites like `crime.team <https://crime.team/>`__ and
`tilde.club <http://tilde.club/>`__ are styled like a terminal window.
(Here's a `list <http://tilde.club/%7Epfhawkins/othertildes.html>`__ of
some more.)

`Legible News <https://legiblenews.com/>`__ is a news site populated
from Wikipedia's Current Events portal. (It is built by `Colton Hurst
<https://www.coltonhurst.com/index.html>`__, who has a fairly
minimalist site, too.)

The `text-only version of NPR <https://text.npr.org/>`__ is pretty
neat.

The personal website of `Dom Hofmann <http://domhofmann.com/>`__, a
co-founder of Vine, *has no CSS.*

There is a certain style of blog where the page is dominated by a
simple list of articles, which seems to have been informed by the
general style of `static site generators
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_template_system#Static_site_generators>`_.
Here are some: `Trever Elkins <https://trevore.com/>`__, `Hugo Landau
<https://www.devever.net/~hl/>`__, `Dan Luu <https://danluu.com/>`__,
`Marc Bevand <http://blog.zorinaq.com/>`__

Idiosyncratic and minimal: `Gaxun.net <http://gaxun.net/>`__

More full-featured, but hand-made feel: US branch of the `Carthusian
Order <http://transfiguration.chartreux.org/index.htm>`__, poet `Erik
Kennedy <http://erikkennedy.com/>`__, poet `Stephanie Kwak
<https://www.stephaniekwak.com/>`__
 
*Low Tech Magazine* has a `solar-powered site <https://solar.lowtechmagazine.com/>`__.

Portfolios: `Audun Mortensen
<http://www.audunmortensen.com/>`__, `David Fishkind
<http://www.davidfishkind.com/>`__
